# Overview
- Backend sends all data in UTC, and accepts data in LOCAL client timezones.
- The frontend MUST send dates to backend in local client timezone (i.e. no conversion to UTC should be made on the frontend) and should specify this timezone.
- Database - all values are in UTC.
- Backend - all values are in UTC.
- Client - all values are in LOCAL timezone (converted from UTC automatically on deserialization. when serializing - no conversion to UTC is made).

**We only use DateTime class on backend (never use DateTimeOffset).**

This aligns with recommendations https://github.com/npgsql/npgsql/issues/2209#issuecomment-434823765
>Working with timezone-aware databases is a headache. Whenever possible, we recommend that users go turtles UTC all the way down. That is, only convert from/to local time when displaying to a human user.

# Handling DateTime (with time)

- Client need to send the datetime using local timezone, i.e. `2021-01-23T17:30:00+07:00` should be sent over http.
- Backend upon deserialization will convert the date to UTC. I.e. on backend it will be `2021-01-23T10:30:00`. Since we use `DateTime` (not `DateTimeOffset`) no timezone is specified. All values on backend are in UTC.
- In GET requests the server sends values in UTC, i.e. the following will be sent: `2021-01-23T10:30:00+00:00`. Client will know it's UTC (by the trailing `+00:00`) and will convert it to local time, `2021-01-23T17:30:00+07:00`.

# Handling DateOnly (without time)
If certain property contains only Date (without time), e.g. `BirthDate`, it must be of `DateOnly` type.
In this case everything is handled automatically (by `DateOnlyConverter`s and autogenerated clients).
`DateOnly` fields are serialized as `yyyy-MM-dd` (both from Frontend and Backend side).


# Handling DateTimeOffset
We do NOT use DateTimeOffset at all.